I sat for awhile, frozen with horror; and then, in the listlessness of
despair, I again turned over the pages.  I came to typhoid fever--read the
symptoms--discovered that I had typhoid fever, must have had it for months
without knowing it--wondered what else I had got; turned up St. Vitus's
Dance--found, as I expected, that I had that too,--began to get interested
in my case, and determined to sift it to the bottom, and so started
alphabetically--read up ague, and learnt that I was sickening for it, and
that the acute stage would commence in about another fortnight.  Bright's
disease, I was relieved to find, I had only in a modified form, and, so
far as that was concerned, I might live for years.  Cholera I had, with
severe complications; and diphtheria I seemed to have been born with.  I
plodded conscientiously through the twenty-six letters, and the only
malady I could conclude I had not got was housemaid's knee.

I felt rather hurt about this at first; it seemed somehow to be a sort of
slight.  Why hadn't I got housemaid's knee?  Why this invidious
reservation?  After a while, however, less grasping feelings prevailed.
I reflected that I had every other known malady in the pharmacology, and
I grew less selfish, and determined to do without housemaid's knee.
Gout, in its most malignant stage, it would appear, had seized me without
my being aware of it; and zymosis I had evidently been suffering with
from boyhood.  There were no more diseases after zymosis, so I concluded
there was nothing else the matter with me.

I sat and pondered.  I thought what an interesting case I must be from a
medical point of view, what an acquisition I should be to a class!
Students would have no need to "walk the hospitals," if they had me.  I
was a hospital in myself.  All they need do would be to walk round me,
and, after that, take their diploma.

Then I wondered how long I had to live.  I tried to examine myself.  I
felt my pulse.  I could not at first feel any pulse at all.  Then, all of
a sudden, it seemed to start off.  I pulled out my watch and timed it.  I
made it a hundred and forty-seven to the minute.  I tried to feel my
heart.  I could not feel my heart.  It had stopped beating.  I have since
been induced to come to the opinion that it must have been there all the
time, and must have been beating, but I cannot account for it.  I patted
myself all over my front, from what I call my waist up to my head, and I
went a bit round each side, and a little way up the back.  But I could
not feel or hear anything.  I tried to look at my tongue.  I stuck it out
as far as ever it would go, and I shut one eye, and tried to examine it
with the other.  I could only see the tip, and the only thing that I
could gain from that was to feel more certain than before that I had
scarlet fever.
